# Strengths and Limitations

As far as we know, our study is the first to evaluate the quality of sharing in healthcare DES.  A strength of our work is that our quality audit is simple, effective, and quick to apply to new studies. Given its simplicity, and the large amount of guidance on open science, and coding, available for free online, it is important to recognise that it does show clear deficiencies in the last four years of the literature.  For example, in open licensing, model testing (an expectation spelled out in any simulation textbook), and in long term storage and access.

Another strength is that we have followed open working practices in this study. All code and data are available, openly licensed, and deposited in Zenodo. We have also taken the additional step of providing an online companion book where code can be run to reproduce the results of the study. This is also included in Zenodo to ensure long term availability.    

Our study cannot make any definitive statements about the reproducibility of the studies that shared their code versus those that used a reporting guideline versus those that did neither. Our aim instead was to focus on the practice of sharing and the current deficiencies as defined by gold standard guides such as the Turing Way and Open Modelling Initiative.

Our findings are based on information we found in the publication. We recognize that the model code may have been published online but not mentioned in the article. We feel our approach is the most appropriate as articles are the primary means by which researchers find research studies and their artefacts.  We chose not to contact all study authors as others have found a 1% response rate.