# Reproducibility

This section links the results section of the [paper](https://osf.io/c4ytf/) to the notebooks and code in the supplementary online Jupyter book that generated the numbers and charts.  We have presented this by the numbered sections including tables and figures in the main text.  

> The current version of this page reflects the [pre-print of the paper](https://osf.io/c4ytf/).
>> Monks, Thomas, and Alison Harper. 2023. “Computer Model and Code Sharing Practices in Healthcare Discrete-event Simulation: A Systematic Scoping Review.” OSF Preprints. June 5. doi:10.31219/osf.io/c4ytf.


## 4. Results

* All results are generated with pre-processed data that was extracted from papers and archived models. The script to pre-process the data can be found in the [Pre-processing notebook](../03_results/01_preprocessing.ipynb)
* The code that generates the totals and formats the data so that it can be uploaded to the PRISMA Shiney App can be found in the [PRISMA diagram notebook](../03_results/00_prisma.ipynb)

### 4.1 Study characteristics

* The total number of studies broken down into COVID-19 and FOSS categories was generated by code in the [Main Summary notebook](../03_results/02_sharing_hl_summary.ipynb)
* Descriptive statistics for DES software and languages used is generated in the [Software notebook](../03_results/03b_software.ipynb)

### 4.2 What proportion of studies shared model code?

* Overall summary statistics for DES computer models shared are generated in the [Main Summary notebook](../03_results/02_sharing_hl_summary.ipynb) 
* A breakdown by journal, conference and book chapter is generated by the [Sharing by Article Type notebook](../03_results/03_article_type.ipynb)
* The breakdown by year is generated by the [Year of Publication notebook](../03_results/03a_year.ipynb)
* The LaTeX for `Table 2: Sharing of models article type` is generated in the [Sharing by Article Type notebook](../03_results/03_article_type.ipynb)
* The `matplotlib` code for generating `Figure 2: Sharing of models by year of publication` is located in the [Year of Publication notebook](../03_results/03a_year.ipynb)

### 4.3 What proportion of the studies used a reporting guideline?

* All code for the reporting guidelines descriptive statistics is generated in the [Use of reporting guidelines notebook](../03_results/03a_reporting_guidelines.ipynb)

### 4.4 What methods, tools, and resources did authors use to share their models and code?

* The LaTeX for `Table 3: Jansson et al. classification of model archiving.` is generated by the [Model Archiving notebook](../03_results/07a_jansson_sharing_method.ipynb)

### 4.5 To what extent do the DES health community follow best practice for open science when sharing models?

* The LaTeX for `Table 4: Best practice audit results` is generated in the [Best Practice Audit: Overall Summary notebook](../03_results/07_bpa_summary.ipynb)
